Welcome in this lecture.
I am going to be showing you how we can build this.
The example project called Spacewar which has a cool little spaceship game.
And the thing that we are going to be doing this with is called X code which you foresee before and
we are going to be basically using the esco project included in the S.T. case example project.
We're going to be applying a few settings changes are required in order to build it correctly.
And we are also going to add it in to your steam library like so that you can play from within steam
and it behaves well with the steam integration.
So let's dive in and see how all of that is done.
Okay.
So in this video we are going to be covering what the Visual Studio folk covered in the last video so
I'm going to be taking you through the steam works example project.
What are these and how will we use it.
We're going to open up an x code apply the recommended settings and have that fixed and then we are
going to run it in steam.
Okay.
So we are going to figure out how to make the project run and how to make it run without crashing which
might be the problem.
So thats going to be a follow a long lecture or a do it at the end once he watched it lecture.
Because there wont be a specific challenge here.
Okay so let's begin with the first step which is introducing the steam works example project.
So this is it here.
This is my at least my version control route under the encrypted directories I have the stk that we
extracted in the last lecture you took.
And in this stk we have a steam works example project.
This is the thing that we are interested in it's the thing that we are looking at.
Okay so here in the steelworks example project we have a few things but the most important one perhaps
is the ex code project down here it's called let me see if I can expand it out so we can get the full
name.
It's called the Steam works example.
Ex code proj.
Okay.
So they were going to go ahead and open up the steelwork example or esco proj and it will fire up your
ex code.
MIKE So and what we're going to do is going to try and build it so I am going to do a command be to
build and you'll notice that we have got to build failures.
Now the build failures are up here in the middle bar and we've got this little red icon we click on
it we'll see that it's got some dependency analysis error.
How strange.
But we've also got a warning and the warning says that we can update the recommended settings.
So let's have a go at updating those settings before we resign this to being broken.
Okay so if I double click it then you see it comes up with this list of things that we want to apply
that it wants to apply for US recommended changes to our project let's perform those changes.
I'm going to keep them all checked.
Uncommitted changes here that's okay let's continue.
Let's close that and let's see if it'll build now with a command B.
Has are we have got a build a success so let's have a go at running the project now so this you guys
have had it a lot easier than the visual studio folk they've had to deal with all sorts of include parts.
And here you are just doing it very simply with basically working rate.
So let's go ahead and build it run it should be at least trying to run now that see if it's it's not
running as an error message you might have to pull up from the bottom to see the error messages down
here in the bottom.
Right now it is saying that the steam API in it failed steam must be running Okay.
That's easy to fix.
Just set up steam open up steam log in with your account.
I'm using one of my three test accounts here to show you.
And we are going to try and run it again.
This time success we are in the game.
We could go and create a server and we can play.
So do have a go at playing the game and see what it's like here's what it's like I can shoot I can move.
And all is good in the world but there is a problem.
If I go back to the main menu and I find a lobby and I go to any one of these lobbies and try and join
in the lobby.
Crash.
Oh no.
How do we get past this.
How do we get past crashing when we enter a lobby.
Well actually it's a little bit funky.
The idea here is that you need to actually be running this within steam.
Steam needs to know about the application in order for it to work.
So the way we do this is we go to steam open up steam and we go to our games menu and go to add a non
steam game to my library which is what our game is obviously now is going to spin a beach ball for a
while here.
Don't panic.
Nothing has gone wrong is just for some reason.
When you do this the first time it wants to spin the beach ball.
And once that peach wheels finish spinning you're going to get a dialogue pop up so that can take a
little bit of time.
But here is my dialogue.
Now this is a bit of a strange dialogue it's basically showing you all the currently running applications
and it is asking you for all the applications that it could find and it's asking you which one you would
like to add.
Now we can try running our game and see whether it shows up in that list.
So let's try that off first.
So I'm going to switch back over to steam and see whether it shows up but it doesn't.
I don't see the game in here anywhere let's sir let's just scheck arrouse space wars area.
Nope.
So we're going to have to add this ourselves in.
And we know it's not in the applications Directorate.
So where is it.
Let's go and browse and I'll tell you where we're going.
So first off it's going to pop you in the applications directory so you going to have to go up a level
from there to the root of your file system.
Now the root of your file system you're going to find the users directory.
Go to that select your user.
So you're now in your home directory on the Mac.
And then we're going to look for a directory called library open up library.
It's often hidden so you may not have seen it before may not have thought that you had a library directory
and then under library you're going to look for a folder called a developer and developer were going
to look for a folder called X code then derived data and then here you can see we've got a couple of
things in derived data.
One of them should start with steam works example and then some long random string.
So open that one.
The steam works example.
And then build one went one level too far I'm going to back up build then products.
Not intermediate products is because it is the application we're looking for it's a product of the build
and then debug because we built it as a debug application.
And finally at the end of all that were in the steam works example dot app.
So that to recap if I can expand out my window the full path for that is users your user library developer
X code.
Derived data.
Then the name of the project which is that steam works example and then some random string builder products
debug and then finally you've got the steam work example app you can click open on that and that look
Landers in this ad game menu with that one checked.
We can go and add selected programs.
Make sure you've seen the screen.
Sometimes it goes away without you having seen it and you'll have to go and add again and make sure
you've seen the screen because what we want is for the steam works example app to show up in your library
like so which means that you can hit play and it will run the app.
This time it was running so I'm going to make sure it's quit first set quit.
Steam works example.
In fact I might have to do a couple of times.
No I need to do it from within the game.
Is it the game.
There we go.
And I'm going to go ahead and hit play and make sure it launches find a lobby and just check that we
can indeed.
Boom.
We're now in a lobby and you can see that we can do things like set ourselves as ready and play with
other people.
We're going to be doing that in the next lecture.
So I will see you there.